[MUSIC PLAYING]
[EXPLOSION]
>>The invention
of nuclear weapons
ranks as one of the key
developments in human history.
For the first time
all out warfare risked
not only the destruction
of civilization,
but the radioactive poisoning
of the planet itself.
America's attacks against
the Japanese cities
of Hiroshima and
Nagasaki in August 1945
demonstrated that the
catastrophic effects
of even a small atomic bomb
were horrific in the extreme.
>>After the atomic bomb
blast that virtually
erased this city of 340,000
people from the Earth.
As far as the eye can see
stretched scenes of desolation
and ruin.
Four square miles
leveled by one bomb.
>>Fearing widespread
destruction in the days ahead,
and shocked by the simultaneous
invasion of its territory
by the Soviet Union, the
Japanese government quickly
surrendered, thereby
ending World War II.
Less than a year
later the US military
detonated two more atomic bombs
during Operation Crossroads,
conducted at the newly created
Pacific Proving Grounds.
By then the Soviets,
once allies of the US,
were considered a threat
to the Western democracies
in the postwar world.
President Harry Truman
and his advisors
concluded that America's
possession of large numbers
of atomic weapons would keep
the Russian communists in check,
and authorized crash programs
devoted to ongoing testing
and mass production.
On August 29, 1949,
the Soviet Union
detonated its own atomic bomb,
much sooner than expected.
The nuclear arms race
had begun in earnest.
To make matters worse,
by the early 1950s
the newly invented
hydrogen bombs,
some of them 1,000 times more
powerful than atomic weapons,
began to be tested in
remote areas of the planet
by the new nuclear
superpowers and their allies.
Mankind's future
never looked bleaker.
Intriguingly, this
grim state of affairs
led to a still
unexplained mystery.
As difficult as this will be
for some people to accept,
evidence uncovered
by researchers
confirms that technologically
advanced observers,
whose identity and
intentions remain unknown,
began to monitor the
nuclear standoff, almost
from the start.
Declassified US
government documents
reveal that as
early as December,
1948 incursions by
mysterious aerial objects,
later referred to as
UFOs, began to occur
at American nuclear
laboratories, bomb storage
depos, weapons test areas,
and, as time went on,
intercontinental
ballistic missile sites.
Particularly dramatic
are the incidents now
being openly discussed by
former US Air Force ICBM
launch officers, who were
stationed at various Strategic
Air Command bases in
the 1960s and '70s.
According to these highly
credible witnesses,
on some occasions,
as the UFOs briefly
hovered over their
launch facilities,
the nuclear missiles
inexplicably malfunctioned.
The officers had been on alert
in their underground launch
control capsules when they
received telephone calls
from their security
guards at ground level,
saying that they were observing
one or more unidentified disk
shaped craft
maneuvering in the sky.
Seconds later, as many
as 10 ICBMs suddenly
shut down, according to warning
lights on the officers' missile
readiness consoles,
meaning that they could not
have been launched if the
President of the United States
had, at that moment, ordered
a nuclear attack on America's
adversaries.
These witnesses say
that their superiors
ordered them to keep
quiet about the incidents,
and in some cases
required them to sign
non-disclosure statements,
which stipulated
severe legal penalties for
anyone who violated secrecy.
As a result of the harsh
security measures imposed
upon them many of these
Air Force veterans
waited decades before discussing
the nearly unbelievable
and highly disturbing
incidents they had observed.
Nevertheless, a number of them
have finally stepped forward
to reveal the truth.
On September 27, 2010, a
leading UFO researcher,
Robert Hastings, and a former
Minuteman missile launch
officer, Robert Salas,
co-sponsored the UFOs and Nukes
press conference in
Washington DC in an effort
to bring the facts
to the public.
The event was widely
covered by the media,
not only in the United
States, but around the world.
CNN streamed it live.
And other major
news organizations
published stories about
it later the same day.
>>Good afternoon.
My name is Robert Salas.
In 1967 I was a first lieutenant
stationed at Malmstrom Air
Force Base, Montana.
I was a missile launch officer.
Sometime in the evening
hours, on March 24,
I received a call from one of
my topside guards, the flight
security controller,
stating that they
had been observing strange
lights in the sky making
odd maneuvers.
He called back about
five minutes later.
This time he was
screaming into the phone,
saying they're looking at a red,
glowing object hovering just
above our front gate.
Our missiles began
going into what's
called a no-go condition,
or unlaunchable.
Essentially they were disabled,
while this object was still
hovering over our site.
>>Back in 1967 I was the officer
in charge of the communications
center at the 28th Air Division
in Great Falls, Montana.
In March of that
particular year I
can clearly recall
a message coming
through my communications
center which basically
said that a UFO did in fact
shut down several missile
silos in Montana.
>>Robert Hastings
has devoted 40 years
to seeking out and interviewing
US military veterans regarding
their UFO experiences at missile
sites and other nuclear weapons
facilities.
His book, "UFOs and Nukes"
contains the testimony
of more than 100 of
those individuals.
>>Declassified US government
documents and witness testimony
from former or retired
US military personnel
confirm beyond any
doubt the reality
of ongoing UFO incursions
at nuclear weapons sites.
>>I was the Minuteman-III combat
crew commander at FE Warren Air
Force Base, Wyoming.
In 1976 my deputy Bill
and I were on alert.
We contacted our FSE, our
Flight Security Controller,
and asked him was
there something wrong?
And he said right above him
was a big white object that
was cigar shaped, 80 to 100 feet
above him, 40 to 50 feet long.
I said, OK.
Keep me appraised
of what's happening.
So we were talking for a while.
It stayed there
for, I don't know,
a minute, a minute and a half.
And it slowly and very silently
moved along the access road.
When we came up the
next morning the FSE
was in his chair in
the fetal position.
And we talked to him and
tried to calm him down.
We couldn't calm him
down oddly enough.
We were called in by the
squadron commander again.
And he took whatever notes
my deputy made, tore them up.
So this didn't happen.
It's top secret.
And made us sign something.
>>Significantly,
dramatic UFO incidents
were also occurring at
nuclear missile facilities
in the former Soviet
Union, including
cases where the weapons
suddenly malfunctioned.
Documents obtained in Russia
by Western journalists
in the 1990s, as well as
on the record statements
by Soviet army veterans,
summarize the unsettling events
in great detail.
These revelations made clear
that both American and Soviet
nuclear missiles were subjected
to ongoing surveillance,
and from time to time,
deliberate tampering
by whoever was piloting
the UFOs during
the long, tense confrontation
known as the Cold War.
Had that anxious standoff
between capitalism
and communism suddenly
become a hot nuclear war,
hundreds of millions
of people would
have been killed outright, and
a great many more, perhaps 1
to 2 billion
worldwide, would have
died over time, the result
of radiation illness,
exposure, and mass starvation.
Indeed, a great many species
and ecosystems on Earth
would have been
devastated by such a war.
But what were the mysterious
missile disruptions,
as described by American and
Soviet military veterans,
meant to convey?
Were they a demonstration of
the unknown observer's ability
to interfere with
these weapons at will?
If so, would they
have openly intervened
to try to prevent a nuclear
exchange from occurring
if hostilities seemed imminent?
To state the obvious, the
answers to these questions
remain elusive even now.
But if all of this is true,
what exactly is going on?
Who or what is piloting
the amazing aerial craft
we call UFOs?
And why do they seemingly
have an intense interest
in monitoring and sometimes
disrupting our nuclear weapons
systems?
A brief review of the evidence
may provide a few clues.
US government documents
released through the Freedom
of Information Act confirm that
unidentified aerial objects,
described as "flying disks,"
and "flying saucers,"
began to be sighted around the
Los Alamos Atomic Laboratory
in New Mexico, the birthplace
of nuclear weapons, as early
as December, 1948.
Three years earlier,
on July 16, 1945,
the lab had tested
the first atomic bomb
in the desert near
Alamogordo just
weeks before the devastating
attacks against Japan.
Although shrouded in
secrecy for decades,
the declassified
documents reveal
that UFOs appeared with
alarming frequency,
not only at Los Alamos, but
also at its sister laboratory,
Sandia, in Albuquerque,
throughout the 1950s.
Other declassified documents
discuss ongoing UFO sightings
at the Oak Ridge Nuclear
Laboratory in Tennessee,
the Hanford Plutonium Processing
Plant in Washington state,
and the Savannah River Complex,
another plutonium manufacturing
site in South Carolina.
While the local and
even national media
occasionally published
stories about these incidents,
the vast majority of
the American public
had no idea that they were
so frequent and widespread.
Nevertheless, according to
military intelligence officers,
a worrisome pattern
had begun to emerge.
On July 1st, 1952,
"Look" magazine
featured an article, "Hunt
for the Flying Saucer,"
about the Air Force's new UFO
investigations group, Project
Blue Book, and noted that its
director, First Lieutenant
Edward Ruppelt had plotted
63 unexplained sightings
on a map of the United States.
At that point, it was
discovered that a,
quote, "ominous
correlation" existed
between some of the
sightings and the location
of various atomic
weapons installations.
Later that year the CIA took
notice of the situation,
as this memorandum reveals.
Dr. H. Marshall Chadwell,
Assistant Director
of the agency's Office of
Scientific Intelligence wrote,
quote, "Sightings of unexplained
objects at great altitudes,
and traveling at high speeds
in the vicinity of major US
defense installations
are of such nature
that they are not attributable
to natural phenomena or known
types of aerial vehicles."
UFOs also visited the newly
created Nevada Proving Ground,
located 60 miles northwest
of Las Vegas, where
new and improved atomic
devices were being tested.
Civilians living near
the proving ground
often observed the
aerial disks, sometimes
flying in large formations,
and subsequently notify the Air
Force and the local media.
At the same time,
US army personnel
engaged in field maneuvers
at the test site,
designed to expose them to
atomic battlefield conditions,
also reported seeing the UFOs.
Meanwhile, other sightings were
occurring at the remote Pacific
proving grounds, where
ongoing tests of the far more
destructive hydrogen
bombs were taking place,
as the US tried to outpace the
Soviets in the new technology
of warfare.
The chief purpose
of the nuclear tests
was to create a powerful
but lightweight bomb that
could be easily transported
aboard an aircraft,
the primary delivery
system during that era.
Had the United States been
attacked by the Soviet Union,
the US Air Force planned to
launch 100 of strategic bombers
against that country and
its communist allies.
Flying over the
Arctic region, they
would deliver their deadly
payloads a few hours later.
At the same time,
Soviet bombers would
be racing toward North
America and Western Europe,
carrying their own
hydrogen bombs,
intent on massive retaliation.
If this were not enough,
the nuclear standoff
entered a new and even
more menacing phase
in the early 1960s, with
the first deployment
of intercontinental
ballistic missiles.
Traveling at more than
15,000 miles per hour,
these space age
weapons could deliver
their massively
destructive warheads
to targets on the other side
of the globe in less than half
an hour.
That shockingly brief
period was later reduced
to less than 10 minutes, once
US and Soviet missile carrying
submarines began to be deployed
just off each other's coasts.
Nuclear Armageddon,
if it came to pass,
would burst upon the world
with sudden savagery,
against which there would
be no possible defense.
Perhaps predictably,
declassified documents
reveal that UFO sightings
at nuclear missile launch
facilities began to
occur as early as 1962.
>>My crew was on alert
at missile complex seven.
Major Gilbert, my
crew commander, and I
were manning the launch console.
We got a call from
the site six crew
commander saying that
there's something
hovering above his sight.
And he asked us to go topside
and see what we could see.
So Major Gilbert sent
our three enlisted men
to what we call
the cap, which was
the topside of the
[INAUDIBLE] control center.
They reported to us that they
saw a light above site six
that rapidly accelerated,
and stopped instantly
above the area where
sight eight was located,
and went back and forth.
It was instant go, instant stop.
That object did things that
no airplane, helicopter,
or any other system that we
had in existence could do.
It had to be not of this Earth.
Air Force security personnel
guarding these sensitive sites
reported seeing
unknown aerial objects,
usually described as
disk shaped, maneuvering
at low altitude, and sometimes
even hovering over launch silos
and launch control
facilities at every ICBM base
in the United States.
Often the UFOs were
tracked on radar,
performing maneuvers vastly
beyond the capability
of any manmade aircraft.
Experienced radar
personnel were stunned
as the objects flew
thousands of miles per hour,
made sharp angled turns, and
instantly stopped in midair.
The mysterious intruders
were frequently
chased by Air Force
interceptors, which
had been scrambled to
protect the missiles
from possible sabotage.
So far as is known, the UFOs
always escaped unscathed,
usually by vastly
increasing their speed
and leaving the
fighters far behind.
Baffled military
officials had to deal
with these unexplained
and alarming incidents
on an ongoing basis, while
trying their best to keep
the facts from leaking out
to their fellow Americans,
many of whom believed
the UFO phenomenon to be
a nonsensical subject,
having no basis in reality.
This skeptical
attitude was actively
fostered by the government's own
policy of ridicule and denial,
as implemented by members
of Project Blue Book, who
routinely dismissed
credible, bona fide UFO
sightings as the
misidentifications
of natural phenomena,
or manmade aircraft.
Over time this practice led to
a widespread public backlash
against the US
government, and its weak
and sometimes ridiculous
explanations for the sightings.
Meanwhile, behind
the scenes, UFOs
began to appear at
missile test ranges,
often during launches designed
to improve the performance
and reliability of
America's ICBMs,
and the deadly
warheads they carried.
Occasionally those
aboard the UFOs
did more than watch the tests.
While the exact date
remains uncertain,
sometime in the fall
of 1964 an incident
occurred at Vandenberg Air
Force Base, California,
which has come to be the best
known, most astonishing example
of deliberate UFO interference
with our nuclear weapons
systems.
Although the case is still
classified top secret,
a former Air Force
officer, Dr. Robert Jacobs,
has openly discussed it.
At the time
Lieutenant Jacobs, who
was assigned to the 1369th
photographic squadron,
and held the title
Officer in Charge
of Photo Instrumentation,
was tasked
with filming missile launches
from a remote mountaintop
site on California's
Big Sur coastline,
using a powerful,
telescopic camera.
The ascending ICBMs
would initially
fill the camera frame,
permitting a detailed
view of engine
performance, staging,
and other aspects
of a given launch,
as they raced out over
the Pacific Ocean.
Following one such test
launch, Lieutenant Jacobs
was unexpectedly told to report
to the office of Major Florenz
Mansmann, a photographic
analyst assigned
to Vandenberg's Office of the
Chief Scientist First Strategic
Aerospace Division.
Upon arriving he noticed
two mysterious men
in gray suits, who he later
learned were CIA officers.
A motion picture
projector had been set up,
and without explanation
Major Mansmann turned it on,
telling Jacobs, watch this.
Jacobs, later a
university professor,
describes what happened next.
>>On the screen was
the film we had shot.
The nose cones separate.
The chaff flew out
in front of it.
We saw this as
obviously reflections
of light rippling like that.
And then we saw the dummy
warhead flying along.
It's going between 6,000
and 8,000 miles an hour
at that point.
And it's on the fringe of space.
And suddenly, into
that frame, an object
flew in, chasing the chaff,
the warhead, and so on,
at the same speed, and, in polar
orbit, it fired a beam of light
at the warhead.
The beam of light struck that.
The object flew up, shot
another beam of light
at the dummy
warhead, went around,
shot another beam
of light at it,
went down, shot a beam of light,
and then flew out the same way
it had come in.
At which time the dummy
warhead fell out of the frame.
The lights came on, and
Major Mansmann said to me,
were you guys screwing
around up there?
And I said, no sir.
And he said, what was that?
And I said, it looks
like we got a UFO.
And he said,
Lieutenant Jacobs, you
are never to speak
of this again.
It never happened.
Decades later Dr. Mansmann, by
then a researcher at Stanford
University, informed
Dr. Jacobs that after he
had left the room the two CIA
officers quickly confiscated
the film of the
amazing incident,
telling Mansmann that it
was classified top secret.
Mansmann also confirmed, in
letters to various researchers,
that before the film
was whisked away,
he had conducted
an extensive frame
by frame analysis of it using
a magnifier, which revealed
the UFO in great detail.
He wrote, quote, "The
shape was a classic disk.
The center seemed to
be a raised bubble.
The entire lower saucer
shape was glowing,
and seemed to be
rotating slowly.
At the point of beam
release, the object
turned like it was required
to be in a position
to fire from a platform.
The assumption was, at that
time, extraterrestrial."
Responding to the retired
Major's revelations,
Dr. Jacobs wrote, quote,
"Those beams of light
were a warning, a shot
fired across the bow
of our nuclear silliness ship."
Then on August 1, 1965, a
dramatic, large scale UFO
incursion took place
at FE Warren Air Force
Base in Wyoming, as this
declassified report confirms.
Dozens of sightings of
disk shaped craft cavorting
at low altitude over
minuteman missile silos,
known as launch
facilities, were reported
by the Air Force security
personnel guarding them.
Former launch
officer J. Earnshaw
has discussed his involvement
in one such incident that night.
>>I was in command
of capsule echo one
at Warren Air Force Base.
I got a call about
3:30 in the morning,
somewhere in that time, from
the flight security controller
above, who said
that, sir, there are
some strange objects out there.
I said, what do you mean?
And it turns out
that he had observed,
along with the rest of
his response team members,
what looked like five to
six oblong lights stacked
on top of one another, just
outside the gate at echo one.
They didn't seem to cause
any particular damage.
They didn't seem to put
out any beams of light,
or anything else like that.
They simply were
there, stacked up.
It was rather a benign
incident at the time.
The paperwork all disappeared.
>>Over the next two years
similar UFO incursions
also took place at Minot Air
Force Base, North Dakota,
and Ellsworth Air Force
Base, South Dakota.
Although those
disturbing incidents
were reported in official
records at the time,
and occasionally leaked to the
media, many of the details only
emerged decades later in the
testimony of former missile
launch officers.
>>I was on duty at echo, which
our squadron command post,
we had strike teams respond
to alarms from the missiles.
They were three to
five miles away.
And they jumped in their trucks
and went roaring out there.
And they called
me back and said,
sir, for lack of a
better description,
there's a flying saucer
hovering over that missile.
And there's a beam of reddish
light going down to it.
I assume they were taking
data with that beam.
It wasn't destructive
as far as I know.
It had to be a data
collection thing.
I'm sure the canned the
warhead, or something or other.
>>Although the Air Force
could not yet know it,
the most dramatic
nuclear weapons
related UFO incidents
were about to occur.
>>During the pre-departure
crew briefing
it was mentioned that some
missiles that November
flight had gone off alert.
We reached the launch
control facility.
We entered the
gate, after giving
the appropriate password.
And the above ground
personnel briefed us
on what had happened.
And essentially we were
told by the site manager
that an object had been sighted
up the windows, with flashing
lights, and was probably about
80 to 100 feet in diameter.
It then went to the main
gate, where it hovered.
And when we debriefed the
underground launch crew,
they indicated that all the
missiles that they controlled
had gone off on
alert at the time
that object had been hovering
next to the main gate.
My crew commander,
Major Tolrud, told me
that he had received
a call overnight,
evidently while I was on
rest break below ground,
and saying that we
as a crew were never
to speak about this again.
This was a very
serious incident.
I mean, something to take
our nuclear tipped missiles
off alert, it was something that
we had never been prepared for.
The same year that
these amazing events
were unfolding in secrecy,
Secretary of the Air Force
Harold Brown appeared before
a congressional hearing,
and dismissed the idea
that information about UFOs
was being kept from
the American public.
>>We have not been
hiding anything.
The investigations
have been made public.
The explanations of those where
there is a clear explanation
have been made public.
The hearing this morning was
public for just that reason.
Brown's claims have
now been discredited.
But the strict security measures
imposed on military witnesses
at the time meant
that decades would
pass before the public learned
the facts about UFO activity
at nuclear missile sites.
In any case, the
next known incident,
at Malmstrom Air Force Base,
Montana, in March 1967,
left no doubt that
those aboard the UFOs
were intent on disrupting the
functionality of American ICBMs
in their underground silos.
On March 16, at Echo Flight,
a missile security guard
reported that a large
round object had suddenly
appeared in the sky and was
hovering at low altitude,
directly over one of
the missile silos.
Moments later, the
entire group of 10
ICBMs mysteriously
malfunctioned.
This startling fact has been
confirmed by one of the launch
officers on alert that day, now
retired Colonel Walter Figel,
who spoke about the incident
during a taped telephone
conversation with
Robert Hastings in 2008.
Figel said that in response to
the missile guard's UFO report
he had sent out two security
alert teams, one of which
confirmed the presence
of the object.
>>The strike team that
went out, one of the two
claimed that they saw
something over the site.
>>How did they describe that?
>>He just said a
large, round object.
>>Directly over the LF?
>>Directly over the site.
>>But Figel was not
the only one to be
told that a UFO was in the
vicinity during the incident.
Former Minuteman
electromechanical technician
Henry Barlow, who helped restart
some of the stricken missiles,
was informed that the mysterious
aerial craft had actually
caused the problem.
>>Job control called and said we
have a problem at Echo Flight.
And four or five
missiles, or six missiles,
just shut down simultaneously.
And we want you to go
to the nearest site,
penetrate the site and
see what's going on.
So on our way to the
site they had called
and said that the other
four missiles had shut down,
so that all of them
are now shut down.
At that time they said
UFO activity in the area.
And we had heard this on
and off for many times
when we were out at
the missile sites,
that job control
would call and say,
we have reports of UFO
activity in your area.
Keep your eyes open.
And I think we covered
three or four sites.
And they were sending other
teams out from the base.
We had to go to echo one
to stay for the night
there and get eight
hours of sleep
before we headed
back to the base.
So when we got in
there there was hardly
room to walk in there because
there was so much brass.
And we heard that
there was a UFO spotted
over echo two, which is the
most northern sight in the Echo
Flight.
>>In 1997 missile
engineer Robert Kaminski,
who headed the Boeing company
team tasked with investigating
the missile shutdown
incident at Echo Flight,
wrote to research
Jim Klotz, saying
that no prosaic cause for
the failures could be found.
Importantly, the
retired engineer
also said he had been
informed that a UFO was
responsible for the
missile malfunctions.
But the excitement
was not yet over.
A second ICBM shutdown incident
occurred eight days later,
on March 24, 1967,
at Oscar Flight,
according to former Minuteman
missile launch officer Captain
Robert Salas, who was on
alert when it occurred.
This was the event
discussed by Salas
at the September 2010 press
conference in Washington DC.
Salas' testimony has been
confirmed by former Minuteman
missile targeting officer
Captain Robert Jamieson, who
helped retarget some of
the Oscar Flight ICBMs.
>>In March of 1967, I was
on alert for dispatch.
And that evening I got
a call from job control,
saying a missile had gone
down in Oscar Flight.
Go out and restart it.
So I had called
my team together.
We went down to the hangar.
I was told that a UFO caused
all 10 missiles in Oscar Flight
to go down.
>>Although this ominous
situation undoubtedly
concerned those in the
know at the Pentagon,
the chief of Project Blue
Book, Major Hector Quintanilla,
nevertheless
presented a brave face
when he spoke with
reporters in response
to a public uproar over
nationwide UFO sightings.
After almost 20 years, and
after having investigated
over 9,000 cases,
the Air Force has
determined the UFO
phenomena does not
present a threat to the national
security of the United States.
>>These same claims were made
when the Air Force announced
the closure of Blue Book in
December 1969, at which time
it again emphasized
that no evidence existed
to indicate that UFOs posed
a threat to the country's
security.
>>While many Americans may
have believed this to be true,
in reality the UFOs continued
to monitor our nuclear weapons
program.
As this Reuters news
agency article confirms.
In August 1973, one of
the mysterious craft,
dubbed a "ghost
ship," was tracked
on radar, maneuvering near a
dummy nuclear warhead in flight
as it raced toward a
splash down in the Pacific
Ocean near Kwajalein Atoll.
This story cited information
from unnamed scientists
working for the US Army's
ballistic missile program.
This intriguing report suggests
that the earlier Big Sur
incident, as revealed by former
US Air Force Lieutenant Robert
Jacobs, and retired
Major Florenz Mansmann,
was not unique.
Although this weapons test a
decade later was apparently
successful, it's clear
that UFOs have maneuvered
near our dummy nuclear
warheads in flight
on more than one occasion.
In the years that followed,
other UFO incidents
continued to occur
at various nukes
related locations
throughout the US.
According to
declassified documents,
two B-52 bomber bases,
Loring Air Force Base,
Maine, and Wordsmith
Air Force Base,
Michigan, were targeted
by unknown aerial craft
in late October 1975.
Although initial
reports referred
to unidentified
helicopters, one witness
at Loring, Sergeant
Steven Eichner,
later wrote that he
had observed, quote,
"an elongated football,
as long as four cars,
and reddish orange
in color, briefly
hovering near the nuclear
weapons storage area."
The object then zoomed away.
One week later, back at
Malmstrom Air Force Base,
as many as seven UFOs were
sighted and tracked on radar,
as they intermittently
maneuvered near, and hovered
above, various minuteman missile
sites over a several hour
period.
According to numerous North
American Aerospace Defense
Command log entries, released
via the Freedom of Information
Act, the UFOs were also
unsuccessfully pursued
by F-106 jet fighters before
finally leaving the vicinity.
One of the craft was apparently
close enough to the ground
to be described
by security forces
as a, quote, "orange
white disk object."
At the Pentagon the National
Military Command Center
was so alarmed by
the UFO incursions
at Strategic Air Command
bomber and missile bases
that a security option
three order was issued,
placing the Air Force's
entire nuclear weapons
force on high alert.
Despite official efforts to
suppress the facts, all of this
eventually became known, as
military and intelligence
agency files were
involuntarily released
to the public via the
Freedom of Information Act.
If all of this were not enough,
the next major UFO event
really rocked the Pentagon.
In late 1980, at the
RAF Bentwaters' Base
in Suffolk, England, then
leased by the US Air Force,
a series of bizarre
incidents left no doubt
that something very
strange was taking place.
In the early hours
of December 26,
a small group of Air
Force security policeman
noticed an unusual light in
nearby Rendlesham Forest.
They approached it on
foot, only to discover
a strange, triangular
shaped craft.
After an indeterminate
period of time,
the unknown object silently
raced skyward and disappeared.
Two nights later, RAF
Bentwaters' deputy base
commander, Lieutenant
Colonel Charles Halt,
was informed that another
mysterious light had suddenly
appeared in the forest.
Halt quickly assembled a small
team of security policemen
to investigate.
After some time the
men observed an object
that looked like a large eyeball
moving through the trees.
At one point material
resembling molten metal
was seen dripping from it.
Suddenly the object
split into five, smaller,
disk shaped craft,
which silently
scattered in all directions.
A short time later
another disk raced
toward Colonel
Halt and his team,
abruptly stopped above them,
and directed a laser like beam
toward the ground
very near their feet.
After a few seconds
the beam clicked off,
and the craft rapidly
receded into the sky,
moving in the direction of the
RAF Bentwaters' weapons storage
area, which was at
the time the largest
American tactical nuclear
bomb depot in Europe.
As this was occurring,
Colonel Halt
began hearing excited radio
chatter from security guards
at the weapons
facility indicating
that the UFO was
sending down laser
like beams into or near
the storage bunker complex.
In 2007 Robert Hastings
located and interviewed
the two retired Air Force
air traffic controllers who
had been on duty at the
Bentwaters Tower that week.
Ike Barker and Jim Carey
divulged for the first time,
they had actually tracked
a bona fide UFO on radar
the night that Colonel
Halt was in the woods.
>>I was just sitting there.
And I happened to see a
dot come on the scope.
And it just went like
one dot at the beginning.
Then another dot.
And another dot.
And it was gone.
So the scope was
120 miles across.
It was just phenomenal for
me to see it go that fast.
All of a sudden here it
come back across again.
It went one, two, and then it
made an immediate right hand
turn and came right
towards the base.
You know, I just said,
that can't be one of ours.
No Jet at that speed can make
an immediate right hand turn.
Just absolutely phenomenal.
>>It's not like any radar
target I've ever seen.
When the sweep
would hit the target
you would have the
entire back of it
would be like a solid line.
Traveling at an extremely
high rate of speed,
it passed over the control
tower, and then it stopped.
I've never seen
anything in my life
like the maneuverability that
happened with this object.
It was an orange-ish color.
It sort of popped into
my mind at the time
that somebody is flying
a basketball out here.
There were like lights
around the center of it.
But it wasn't like running
lights or navigational lights.
It was more like portholes, and
then you were seeing the light
from the inside coming out.
It wasn't flashing
lights or anything.
But it hovered momentarily,
reversed its course,
and went back out at a
high rate of a speed.
>>Moreover, given the dramatic
incident at the weapons storage
area, when one of those UFOs
reportedly directed laser
like beams down
into the facility,
it becomes clear that this
case had a nuclear weapons
connection.
Significantly, another
nukes related incident
in the former Soviet Union is
nearly identical to Bentwaters.
Government documents, obtained
by Western journalists
after the collapse
of the Soviet regime,
confirmed numerous cases of
UFO activity in that country
during the Cold War era,
including one at the Kapustin
Yar military complex.
On the night of July
28, 1989, a disk shaped
object with a dome was observed
by dozens of Soviet army
personnel as it briefly hovered
over the base's nuclear missile
warhead depot.
According to one KGB report, as
the stunned witnesses watched,
the UFO directed
laser like beams
onto the roof of a building, in
which those weapons were kept,
before silently racing away.
Another incident
in the Soviet Union
seven years earlier
was even more shocking.
On October 4, 1982, a huge
flying disk apparently
activated several
nuclear missiles, which
were then preparing to launch.
According to the Soviet
ministry of defense documents,
secured by American television
investigative reporter George
Knapp, the UFO appeared over an
intermediate range missile base
near the Ukrainian town
of [? Bilo Koroviev ? ].
At one point, down in the
underground launch control
capsule, several
missiles suddenly
went into countdown mode.
Although no one had input
the authorization codes,
the missiles were
preparing to launch.
Then after 15
terrifying seconds,
the anomaly ceased,
and everything returned
to normal operational status.
This potentially
disastrous incident
was nearly identical to one
reported to Robert Hastings
by former US Air Force
launch officer David
Schuur, who said that a UFO
had activated the launch
sequence in several of
his minuteman missiles
at Minot Air Force Base, North
Dakota, one night in 1966.
>>As this object passed
over the missile site
we would start getting erratic
indications on that missile.
The bad thing was we also
got a launch indicator.
>>Does that mean that the launch
sequence has been triggered?
>>That means that the missile
has received a launch signal.
>>In that case Schuur
and his commander
had to flip an inhibit
switch to disrupt
the unauthorized countdown.
But were those aboard
the UFOs actually trying
to start a nuclear war?
>>Having investigated
these incidents for decades
my opinion is that those who
pilot the UFOs are visitors
from elsewhere who are engaged
in these provocative actions
at American and Russian
nuclear missile sites
to send us a message that we
humans are playing with fire,
that to engage in nuclear
warfare is essentially suicide.
>>Importantly, these
dramatic incidents
continue to occur long after
the end of the Cold War.
Several US Air Force veterans
have reported new UFO
incursions at nuclear missile
sites and weapons storage areas
in the very recent past.
The most important case
occurred on October 23, 2010.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>This is CNN, breaking news.
>>The breaking news
involves a power failure
that shut down a major part of
the US nuclear missile arsenal.
Let's go to our Pentagon
correspondent Chris Lawrence.
Wow, Chris.
What do we know?
>>Well Wolf, this happened
out in Warren Air Force
Base out in Wyoming.
And bottom line is this.
For less than an hour,
about an hour on Saturday,
the base lost primary
communication with about 50
intercontinental
ballistic missiles.
>>Although widespread media
coverage of the incident
contained no hint
of any UFO reports,
a subsequent investigation
yielded intriguing information
about a series of still
unexplained sightings
occurring during the
communications disruption.
According to confidential
Air Force sources
known to Robert Hastings,
various missile maintenance
teams responding to
the problem reported
observing a huge,
cigar shaped object
maneuvering in the sky
above the missile field.
These persons emphatically
state that the craft was not
a blimp, because no passenger
gondola, propellers,
or stabilizing tail
fins were visible.
And there was no corporate
logo or other advertising
on its hull.
The anomalous
nature of the object
was all but confirmed when these
teams returned to the base.
According to Hastings' sources,
the entire missile maintenance
squadron was sternly
admonished by its commander
not to talk to
journalists or researchers
about, quote, "the things
they may or may not
have seen in the sky."
Despite these revelations
the Air Force officially
maintains that the massive
communications disruption
was caused by an
improperly replaced
circuit card, following repairs
on a weapons system processor.
Nevertheless, key personnel
who were in a position
to know the facts have described
multiple independent UFO
reports during the incident,
which were allegedly suppressed
by command level officers.
This program has only
scratched the surface.
Declassified documents
and eyewitness testimony
suggest that incidents involving
UFO activity at nuclear weapons
sites now number
in the hundreds.
Robert Hastings has
urged military veterans
to contact him at
his website regarding
their knowledge of these events
so that a more complete picture
of the situation can emerge.
He believes that
people everywhere
have a right to know the facts.
>>This is history,
hidden history
to be sure, but
tremendously important.
Scientists laugh at UFOs.
The media generally ignore them.
Billions of people worldwide
think this subject is nonsense.
And yet, what has been
unfolding behind the scenes
for more than half a century is
nothing less than astounding.